CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Cleanup Summary

## Changes Made

This document summarizes the cleanup operations performed to simplify the codebase.

### Files Removed

1. **`TurnstileSolution/TurnstileQueue.cs`** - Removed (unused in simulator)
   - The simulator was managing queues directly with inline lists
   - This class was an abstraction that wasn't being utilized

2. **`TurnstileSolution.Tests/TurnstileQueueTests.cs`** - Removed (5 tests)
   - Tests for the removed TurnstileQueue class

3. **Example Input Files** - Removed (only needed for manual testing)
   - `TurnstileSolution/example1_input.txt`
   - `TurnstileSolution/example2_input.txt`
   - `TurnstileSolution.Tests/example2_input.txt`

### Code Simplifications

1. **`Person.cs`**
   - ? Removed `ToString()` method (unused in production code)
   - Line count reduced from 97 to 88

2. **`TurnstileSimulator.cs`**
   - ? Simplified `GetNextArrivalTime()` using LINQ `Min()` instead of manual loop
   - Changed from 11 lines to 3 lines
   - More concise and readable

### Documentation Updates

1. **`README.md`**
   - ? Removed references to `TurnstileQueue` from architecture section
   - ? Updated test count from 20 to 15
   - ? Updated project structure diagram
   - ? Updated SOLID principles examples

## Results

### Before Cleanup
- **Production Files**: 9 files
- **Test Files**: 4 test files
- **Total Tests**: 20 tests
- **Lines of Code**: ~550 lines

### After Cleanup
- **Production Files**: 8 files (? 11%)
- **Test Files**: 3 test files (? 25%)
- **Total Tests**: 15 tests (? 25%)
- **Lines of Code**: ~480 lines (? 13%)

### Test Results
```
? All 15 tests passing
? Build successful
? No breaking changes
```

## Benefits

1. **Simpler Architecture**
   - Removed unused abstraction layer (TurnstileQueue)
   - Simulator is more straightforward - manages queues inline

2. **Less Code to Maintain**
   - 70 fewer lines of production code
   - 5 fewer tests to maintain
   - Fewer files to navigate

3. **No Loss of Functionality**
   - All original functionality preserved
   - All integration tests still pass
   - Examples still work correctly

4. **Clearer Design Intent**
   - Code matches actual usage patterns
   - No dead code or unused abstractions
   - YAGNI (You Ain't Gonna Need It) principle applied

## Remaining Structure

```
TurnstileSolution/
??? TurnstileDirection.cs          # Enum (17 lines)
??? Person.cs                       # Domain entity (88 lines)
??? IPriorityRule.cs               # Strategy interface (16 lines)
??? IdlePreferExitRule.cs          # Rule 1 (20 lines)
??? PreviousExitPreferEnterRule.cs # Rule 2 (20 lines)
??? PreviousEnterPreferExitRule.cs # Rule 3 (20 lines)
??? TurnstileSimulator.cs          # Simulation engine (135 lines)
??? Program.cs                      # Console app (35 lines)

TurnstileSolution.Tests/
??? PersonTests.cs                  # 4 tests
??? PriorityRuleTests.cs           # 5 tests
??? TurnstileSimulatorTests.cs     # 6 tests
```

## Principles Applied

- ? **YAGNI** (You Aren't Gonna Need It) - Removed unused TurnstileQueue
- ? **KISS** (Keep It Simple, Stupid) - Simplified LINQ queries
- ? **DRY** (Don't Repeat Yourself) - Consolidated queue management in simulator
- ? **Code Minimalism** - Removed debug/helper methods not used in production

## Conclusion

The cleanup successfully simplified the codebase by **13%** while maintaining all functionality and test coverage. The architecture is now more aligned with the actual implementation, making it easier to understand and maintain.

Commit message:

refactor: use IPriorityRule interface instead of concrete types in TurnstileSimulator
Fix Dependency Inversion Principle violation by declaring fields using the
IPriorityRule interface instead of concrete rule implementation types.

This change reduces coupling between the simulator and rule implementations,
making the code more maintainable and properly following SOLID principles.

Changes:
- TurnstileSimulator: Change field types from concrete to interface
  - IdlePreferExitRule → IPriorityRule
  - PreviousExitPreferEnterRule → IPriorityRule
  - PreviousEnterPreferExitRule → IPriorityRule

Benefits:
- ✅ Follows Dependency Inversion Principle (SOLID)
- ✅ Reduces coupling to concrete implementations
- ✅ Improves testability (easier to mock)
- ✅ Increases flexibility for future changes
- ✅ Better aligns with Strategy Pattern design

Impact:
- Changed 3 field declarations
- All 15 tests passing ✓
- Build successful ✓
- No behavior changes ✓
- No breaking changes ✓

Technical Details:
The TurnstileSimulator was declaring its private rule fields using
concrete types (IdlePreferExitRule, etc.) instead of the IPriorityRule
interface. This created tight coupling and violated the Dependency
Inversion Principle. By depending on the abstraction (interface) rather
than concrete implementations, the code is now more flexible and better
follows object-oriented design principles.

The instantiation still uses concrete types (as it should), but the
field types now correctly use the interface, allowing for easier
testing, mocking, and future extensibility.

Files Modified:
- TurnstileSolution/TurnstileSimulator.cs
- CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md (updated)
- DEPENDENCY_INVERSION_IMPROVEMENT.md (new documentation)

Refs: #SOLID #DependencyInversion #StrategyPattern

CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Cleanup Summary

## Changes Made

This document summarizes the cleanup operations performed to simplify the codebase.

### Files Removed

1. **`TurnstileSolution/TurnstileQueue.cs`** - Removed (unused in simulator)
   - The simulator was managing queues directly with inline lists
   - This class was an abstraction that wasn't being utilized

2. **`TurnstileSolution.Tests/TurnstileQueueTests.cs`** - Removed (5 tests)
   - Tests for the removed TurnstileQueue class

3. **Example Input Files** - Removed (only needed for manual testing)
   - `TurnstileSolution/example1_input.txt`
   - `TurnstileSolution/example2_input.txt`
   - `TurnstileSolution.Tests/example2_input.txt`

### Code Simplifications

1. **`Person.cs`**
   - ? Removed `ToString()` method (unused in production code)
   - Line count reduced from 97 to 88

2. **`TurnstileSimulator.cs`**
   - ? Simplified `GetNextArrivalTime()` using LINQ `Min()` instead of manual loop
   - Changed from 11 lines to 3 lines
   - More concise and readable
   - ? **Fixed Dependency Inversion**: Changed field types from concrete implementations to `IPriorityRule` interface
   - Reduced coupling and improved SOLID compliance

### Documentation Updates

1. **`README.md`**
   - ? Removed references to `TurnstileQueue` from architecture section
   - ? Updated test count from 20 to 15
   - ? Updated project structure diagram
   - ? Updated SOLID principles examples

## Results

### Before Cleanup
- **Production Files**: 9 files
- **Test Files**: 4 test files
- **Total Tests**: 20 tests
- **Lines of Code**: ~550 lines

### After Cleanup
- **Production Files**: 8 files (? 11%)
- **Test Files**: 3 test files (? 25%)
- **Total Tests**: 15 tests (? 25%)
- **Lines of Code**: ~480 lines (? 13%)

### Test Results
```
? All 15 tests passing
? Build successful
? No breaking changes
```

## Benefits

1. **Simpler Architecture**
   - Removed unused abstraction layer (TurnstileQueue)
   - Simulator is more straightforward - manages queues inline

2. **Less Code to Maintain**
   - 70 fewer lines of production code
   - 5 fewer tests to maintain
   - Fewer files to navigate

3. **No Loss of Functionality**
   - All original functionality preserved
   - All integration tests still pass
   - Examples still work correctly

4. **Clearer Design Intent**
   - Code matches actual usage patterns
   - No dead code or unused abstractions
   - YAGNI (You Ain't Gonna Need It) principle applied

## Remaining Structure

```
TurnstileSolution/
??? TurnstileDirection.cs          # Enum (17 lines)
??? Person.cs                       # Domain entity (88 lines)
??? IPriorityRule.cs               # Strategy interface (16 lines)
??? IdlePreferExitRule.cs          # Rule 1 (20 lines)
??? PreviousExitPreferEnterRule.cs # Rule 2 (20 lines)
??? PreviousEnterPreferExitRule.cs # Rule 3 (20 lines)
??? TurnstileSimulator.cs          # Simulation engine (135 lines)
??? Program.cs                      # Console app (35 lines)

TurnstileSolution.Tests/
??? PersonTests.cs                  # 4 tests
??? PriorityRuleTests.cs           # 5 tests
??? TurnstileSimulatorTests.cs     # 6 tests
```

## Principles Applied

- ? **YAGNI** (You Aren't Gonna Need It) - Removed unused TurnstileQueue
- ? **KISS** (Keep It Simple, Stupid) - Simplified LINQ queries
- ? **DRY** (Don't Repeat Yourself) - Consolidated queue management in simulator
- ? **Code Minimalism** - Removed debug/helper methods not used in production

## Conclusion

The cleanup successfully simplified the codebase by **13%** while maintaining all functionality and test coverage. The architecture is now more aligned with the actual implementation, making it easier to understand and maintain.
